hello again ladies and gentlemen i'm joe
hindi the android authority app guide
XCOM was released in 2012 and received a
whole bunch of accolades now you could
play it on android and we're gonna take
a closer look at it so for those who
have never played XCOM here's how it
works this is a strategy game where you
must move your soldiers around the map
to try to outmaneuver outflank and kill
the enemy of course the enemy is trying
to do the exact same thing to you and
therein lies the challenge of the game
did I mention the enemies are
predominantly aliens between missions
you'll get the opportunity to visit your
headquarters to do a lot of things to
help you during upcoming battles this
includes research and new technology
recruiting new soldiers and otherwise
beefing up your offensive and defensive
capabilities and personnel for future
missions there are four difficulties to
start with if you play it XCOM or games
like XCOM before then you can probably
try this at a higher difficulty however
I did that and I'm kind of new to this
type of gameplay and it whipped me so if
you aren't familiar with how these games
work you should probably play it at a
lower difficulty first during combat
each player can move two times or dash a
great distance once you can also attack
with weapons and grenades get a better
view or hunker down and try to improve
your defense the concept is you must
move into a good position and kill the
bad guys without getting your team
killed mechanics for this game are very
simple the touch controls translate very
well from PC and while I'm sure the PC
controls are still better players on
Android shouldn't feel as though they're
missing out on too much in combat you
select where your team goes and then
they go there you can then pick the
actions on the task bar below at any
point you can move around the screen by
swiping to see your enemy positions as
you can imagine the more you outflank
them the more damage you do and the more
advantage you have in combat outside of
combat things get a little more
interesting in the home base you can
train and upgrade your troops research
new stuff to use in combat view upcoming
missions and all kinds of other
tomfoolery
even though strategic combat can mean
the difference between a win and a loss
XCOM is done in such a way that proper
upgrades are just as important as proper
combat tactics and that adds a lot of
depth to the game ok so here's what we
liked the graphics and XCOM look
fantastic it's definitely one of the
better-looking games for Android the
cutscenes the animations the voice
acting in the story are all above
average for an Android game and this is
a very clean and crisp title the
controls are simple enough you'll be
sick of the tutorial before it's over
because you
we'll have grasped the game concepts by
then the combat and headquarters duo
allow for a game that is very in-depth
between the strategy involved in the
combat mechanics and then all the stuff
you can do in your base is possible to
play through this game a number of
different ways and that's always good
unlike many Android games there are no
in-app purchases so there aren't those
pitfalls you'd find in similar titles
what happens in this game happens and
you cannot buy your way out of it nor
can you buy your way to the end of this
one the gameplay mechanics are simple to
explain but require a certain elegance
to perform well despite there being guns
and explosions you really have to think
in order to do well in this game and I
like that a lot and here is the bad
there are some bugs that have been
affecting primarily tablets usually it's
some screen freezing or force closes
here and there which can totally ruin
the experience if you have a tablet and
you are thinking of getting this game
make sure you test it as quickly as
possible after you buy it to make sure
you don't end up buying a game that you
can't use we wish there would have been
cloud saving achievements and other
Google Play services included that would
have made this among the most essential
titles in the history of Android gaming
it's still a really good game but you
know without the Google Play services
it's missing a little something
overall XCOM is the kind of game Android
gaming enthusiasts have been waiting for
it's a long drawn-out game with great
graphics good controls and as coherent
of a story as you can possibly expect
from a strategy game I don't often tell
my viewers to go spend $9.99 however if
you like strategy shooters this is $9.99
well-spent
of course if you don't like strategy
shooters you probably won't like this
title anyway so I recommend you don't
buy it if you're not into this type of
game it doesn't take full advantage of
the Android platform and there is the
occasional bug for some people but the
fact that this game helps take the
platform to the next level far outweighs
the negative aspects of the title if
you've been waiting for this type of
game go give it a shot once again I'm
Joe Andy the Android authority app guy
don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel and if you want to check out
Android authority myself for the rest of
our video team you can find all of our
social media links in the video
description below if you're hanging out
for a minute we have a couple of awesome
videos for you to watch right over there
including my review a brand theft auto
san andreas as well as my review of
Final Fantasy 6 finally don't forget to
check out the written compare
which is in the video description below
because that's where you're gonna find
the download link as always thanks for
watching everybody and have a wonderful
day